Using ``brabeion``
==================

Getting Started
---------------

.. class:: brabeion.base.Badge

``brabeion`` works by allowing you to define your badges as subclasses of a
common ``Badge`` class and registering them with ``brabeion``.  For example if
your site gave users points, and you wanted to award three ranks of badges
based on how many points a user had your badge might look like this:

.. sourcecode:: python

    from brabeion import badges
    from brabeion.base import Badge, BadgeAwarded
    
    
    class PointsBadge(Badge):
        slug = "points"
        levels = [
            "Bronze",
            "Silver",
            "Gold",
        ]
        events = [
            "points_awarded",
        ]
        multiple = False
        
        def award(self, **state):
            user = state["user"]
            points = user.get_profile().points
            if points > 10000:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=3)
            elif points > 7500:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=2)
            elif points > 5000:
                return BadgeAwarded(level=1)
        
        
    badges.register(PointsBadge)

There are a few relevant attributes and methods here.

.. attribute:: slug
    
    The unique identifier for this ``Badge``, it should never change.

.. attribute:: levels
    
    A list of the levels available for this badge (if this badge doesn't have
    levels it should just be a list with one item).  It can either be a list of
    strings, which are the names of the levels, or a list of
    :class:`brabeion.base.BadgeDetail` which have both names and description.

.. attribute:: events
    
    A list of events that can possibly trigger this badge to be awarded.  How
    events are triggered is described in further detail below.

.. attribute:: multiple

    A boolean specifying whether or not this badge can be awarded to the same
    user multiple times, currently if this badge has multiple levels this must
    be ``False``.

.. method:: award(self, **state)
    
    This method returns whether or not a user should be awarded this badge.
    ``state`` is guarnteed to have a ``"user"`` key, as well as any other
    custom data you provide.  It should return either a ``BadgeAwarded``
    instance, or ``None``.  If this ``Badge`` doesn't have multiple levels 
    ``BadgeAwarded`` doesn't need to be provided an explicit level.
    
    .. note::
        
        ``BadgeAwarded.level`` is 1-indexed.


Now that you have your ``PointsBadge`` class you need to be able to tell
``brabeion`` when to try to give it to a user.  To do this, any time a user
*might* have received a badge just call ``badges.possibly_award_badge`` with
the name of the event, and whatever state these events might need and
``brabeion`` will handle the details of seeing what badges need to be awarded
to the user:

.. sourcecode:: python

    from brabeion import badges
    
    def my_view(request):
        if request.method == "POST":
            # do some things
            request.user.profile.award_points(15)
            badges.possibly_award_badge("points_awarded", user=request.user)
        # more view


By default badges will be awarded at the current time, if you need to overide
the award time of the badge you can pass a ``force_timestamp`` keyword argument
to ``possibly_award_badge()``.

Asynchronous Badges
-------------------

.. note::
    
    To use asynchronous badges you must have
    `celery <http://github.com/ask/celery>`_ installed and configured.

If your ``Badge.award()`` method takes a long time to compute it may be
prohibitively expensive to call during the request/response cycle.  To solve
this problem ``brabeion`` provides an ``async`` option to ``Badges``.  If this
is ``True`` ``brabeion`` will defer calling your ``award()`` method, using
``celery``, and it will be called at a later time, by another process (read the
`celery docs <http://celeryproject.org/docs/>`_ for more information on how
``celery`` works).

Because ``award()`` won't be called until later you can define a ``freeze()``
method which allows you to provide and additional state that you'll need to
compute ``award()`` correctly.  This may be necessary because your ``Badge``
requires some mutable state.

.. sourcecode:: python

    class AddictBadge(Badge):
        # stuff
        async = True
        
        def freeze(self, **state):
            state["current_day"] = datetime.today()
            return state

In this example badge the user will be awarded the ``AddictBadge`` when they've
visited the site every day for a month, this is expensive to calculate so it
will be done outside the request/response cycle.  However, what happens if they
visit the site right before midnight, and then the ``award()`` method isn't
actually called until the next day?  Using the freeze method you can provide
additional state to the ``award()`` method.
